---
layout: post
title: Hymn of the Week - Litany of Our Lady
---

# Week 2 of this crazy undertaking.

The Litany of Our Lady or Litany of Loreto - sung according to the second tune given in the Liber Usualis.

### The dreaded end to a Mass for Our Lady...

I'll admit that I wasn't always overjoyed to hear this piece. Sometimes, after a long Latin Mass keeping little kids in line, the procession would divert to make a stop at the altar of Our Lady and strike up this piece. There would be times I would have to go out with the kids, but there were some times when I was able to stay and join in the responses. It's so easy to sing - repetitive and meditative like the Rosary. Having two singers to do the "heavy lifting" is a good idea just in case, but it works with a solo cantor too.

Now it's me who initiates singing the Litany at home. While making the recording it became obvious that I don't do this often enough. Maybe I can make it a family custom for First Saturdays, especially now that access to the Sacraments is restricted.

<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/veronica-brandt/embed/episodes/Hymn-of-the-Week-Litany-of-Loreto-for-the-Blessed-Virgin-Mary-eh9gue" height="102px" width="400px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

### Pope Francis' additions

Earlier this year, His Holiness Pope Francis added three invocations to the Litany, and I have yet to add them to the hymnbook. I've added them to the Memrise course. The history of the Litany is rather amazing. This Wikipedia Article gives a good overview.

Also, on a procession I heard someone sing this collect and noticed the word "gaudére" which I have been mispronouncing as "gáudere" for all these years! Okay, I know people will be saying, who cares which syllable takes the accent, but I care. And this I will ammend in the hymnbook ASAP.

Ammending the hymnbook is not a trivial, easy thing. It is written using an obsolete package called OpusTeX. One day I will transfer it all over to the much easier and more modern system called GregorioTeX.

For now, enjoy the new mp3 recording, crossword puzzle and a video from Corpus Christi Watershed at the updated [Litany page]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/hymns/litany.html).
